[Data] Introduce `concurrency` argument to replace ComputeStrategy in map-like APIs (#41461)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/data/transforming-data.rst

        .map_batches(increase_brightness)
    )

> .. _configure_batch_format:

Author: Github somehow shows the change, but this section (`Configuring batch format`) is not changed.

default, Ray Data represents batches as dicts of NumPy ndarrays.

To configure the batch type, specify ``batch_format`` in
:meth:`~ray.data.Dataset.map_batches`. You can return either format from your function.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: NumPy

        .. testcode::

            from typing import Dict
            import numpy as np
            import ray

            def increase_brightness(batch: Dict[str, np.ndarray]) -> Dict[str, np.ndarray]:
                batch["image"] = np.clip(batch["image"] + 4, 0, 255)
                return batch

            ds = (
                ray.data.read_images("s3://anonymous@ray-example-data/image-datasets/simple")
                .map_batches(increase_brightness, batch_format="numpy")
            )

    .. tab-item:: pandas

        .. testcode::

            import pandas as pd
            import ray

            def drop_nas(batch: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
                return batch.dropna()

            ds = (
                ray.data.read_csv("s3://anonymous@air-example-data/iris.csv")
                .map_batches(drop_nas, batch_format="pandas")
            )

> Configuring batch size

Author: Github somehow shows the change, but this section (`Configuring batch size`) is not changed.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Increasing ``batch_size`` improves the performance of vectorized transformations like
NumPy functions and model inference. However, if your batch size is too large, your
program might run out of memory. If you encounter an out-of-memory error, decrease your
``batch_size``.

.. note::

    The default batch size depends on your resource type. If you're using CPUs,
    the default batch size is 4096. If you're using GPUs, you must specify an explicit
    batch size.

> .. _transforming_with_python_class:

Author: This section is the newly added change.

> Transforming with Python Class

Reviewer: shall we rename the tittle to "Transforming with a stateful UDF"? that seems more intuitive.

Author: Changed to `Stateful Transformation` to be more concise, and this does not require people to understand UDF (in the past we have user feedback someone not know UDF).

Author: Updateed to "Stateful transforms".

==============================

> If your transformation requires expensive setup like downloading model weights, use
> Python class instead of function. Python class performs setup exactly once for all data.
> In contrast, function is stateless and doesn't have a way to perform setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your transformation is stateful or requires expensive setup like downloading model weights, use
a callable Python class instead of a function as the UDF. If a Python class is used, the `__init__` method will be called to perform setup exactly once on each worker.
In contrast, function is stateless and doesn't have a way to perform setup before transforming data.
```

> Internally, Ray Data uses tasks to execute function, and uses actors to execute class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Internally, Ray Data uses tasks to execute functions, and uses actors to execute classes.
```

To learn more about tasks and actors, read the
:ref:`Ray Core Key Concepts <core-key-concepts>`.

To transform data with Python class, complete these steps:

1. Implement a class. Perform setup in ``__init__`` and transform data in ``__call__``.

2. Configure ``concurrency`` with the number of concurrent workers. Each worker

> transforms a partition of data.

Author: Updated.

            ds = (
                ray.data.read_images("s3://anonymous@ray-example-data/image-datasets/simple")
                .map_batches(increase_brightness, batch_format="numpy")
            )

    .. tab-item:: pandas

        .. testcode::

            import pandas as pd
            import ray

            def drop_nas(batch: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
                return batch.dropna()

            ds = (
                ray.data.read_csv("s3://anonymous@air-example-data/iris.csv")
                .map_batches(drop_nas, batch_format="pandas")
            )

Configuring batch size
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Increasing ``batch_size`` improves the performance of vectorized transformations like
NumPy functions and model inference. However, if your batch size is too large, your
program might run out of memory. If you encounter an out-of-memory error, decrease your
``batch_size``.

.. note::

    The default batch size depends on your resource type. If you're using CPUs,
    the default batch size is 4096. If you're using GPUs, you must specify an explicit
    batch size.

.. _stateful_transforms:

Stateful Transforms
==============================

> If your transform is stateful to require expensive setup such as downloading
> model weights, use a callable Python class instead of a function. When a Python class
> is used, the ``__init__`` method is called to perform setup exactly once on each worker.
> In contrast, function is stateless, so any setup must be performed for each data item.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your transform requires expensive setup such as downloading
model weights, use a callable Python class instead of a function to make the transform stateful. When a Python class
is used, the ``__init__`` method is called to perform setup exactly once on each worker.
In contrast, functions are stateless, so any setup must be performed for each data item.
```

Internally, Ray Data uses tasks to execute functions, and uses actors to execute classes.
To learn more about tasks and actors, read the
:ref:`Ray Core Key Concepts <core-key-concepts>`.

> To transform data with Python class, complete these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To transform data with a Python class, complete these steps:
```

1. Implement a class. Perform setup in ``__init__`` and transform data in ``__call__``.

2. Call :meth:`~ray.data.Dataset.map_batches`, :meth:`~ray.data.Dataset.map`, or

>    :meth:`~ray.data.Dataset.flat_map`. Configure ``concurrency`` with the number of
>    concurrent workers. Each worker transforms a partition of data in parallel.
>    You can also pass a tuple of ``(min, max)`` to allow Ray Data to automatically
>    scale the number of concurrent workers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :meth:`~ray.data.Dataset.flat_map`. Pass the number of concurrent workers to use with the ``concurrency`` argument. Each worker transforms a partition of data in parallel.
   Fixing the number of concurrent workers gives the most predictable performance, but you can also pass a tuple of ``(min, max)`` to allow Ray Data to automatically
   scale the number of concurrent workers.
```

("Configure" makes it sound like there is some other config object that you need to set)

1. Implement a class. Perform setup in ``__init__`` and transform data in ``__call__``.

2. Configure ``concurrency`` with the number of concurrent workers. Each worker
transforms a partition of data.

> 3. Call :meth:`~ray.data.Dataset.map_batches`.

Reviewer: I think we should also restructure this doc page. In particular, I'd like to have separate sections for "Choosing between tasks and actors" and "controlling concurrency", rather than putting them under "Transforming batches". Because they are not specific to "map_batches". Also, maybe emphasize terms like "stateful/stateless", and downplay terms like "tasks/actors".

Author: Yes make sense to me. I restructure the doc to create a separate section for "Transforming with Python Class". Emphasize on function and class. Add explain that Ray Data uses task to execute function, and uses actor to execute class.

I don't create a section for "controlling concurrency", because we are not recommending users to use auto-scaling actor pool. We can create it later when we have full story of task and actor pool concurrency control.
